# cbdr

*Extracted from: cbdr.docx*

---

cbdr

Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.

Hey folks, welcome back. This is lesson three of the April 2017 ICT mentorship content. This month we're teaching ICT day trading model and this teaching is specifically teaching central bank dealers range.
Okay, for central bank dealers range I'm going to assume you've already went through my YouTube tutorial dealing with the central bank dealers range, but if you haven't gone through it this one's going to pretty much teach you everything you should have gleaned from that lesson anyway, but we're going to assume for a moment that you have an understanding of standard deviations. Now first we have to have a range or a number or a level in terms of a central focal point and then it has to deviate above it or below it to give us our deviation. Well central bank dealers range is a specific time of the day we're going to teach in this lesson, but for now I want you to think about ranges in terms of a predefined high or low and we're going to say the central box here represents the central bank dealers range and I'll get into the specifics and show you what it looks like in a chart, but for now we have to know conceptually if there's a range that we have deemed a specific important range in price.
Once we determine that, that range height from high to low based on two different types of parameters which we'll go over, that measurement of price range in terms of pips can be reproduced or replicated if you will in the form of a standard deviation. One standard deviation above and below would be the same range added to the high of the central bank dealers range and one standard deviation is the same range that makes the central bank dealers range total range in terms of pips and we subtract that range from the central bank dealers range low and that would give us one standard deviation above it and one standard deviation below it. That range would be added to the high of the first standard deviation and subtracted from the low of the first standard deviation below giving us the second standard deviation and this would go on replicating that central bank dealers range with standard deviations one two three and four.
Typically most sell days will create the high of the day from the central bank dealers range up to three standard deviations. Most buy days will create the low of the day from the central bank dealers range down to the third standard deviation. Ideally sell days create the high of the day no more than two standard deviations above the central bank dealers range many times just one standard deviation.
Ideal buy days will create the low of the day no less than two standard deviations below the central bank dealers range and ideally many times you'll see it just go one standard deviation below the central bank dealers range creating the low of the day. Four standard deviations above for a high of the day is going to be on the heels of a very high impact news event for the session in London. Same thing is said on buy days if it trades down to four standard deviations usually it's going to be very high impactful news or price can come down or go up to the fourth standard deviation to create a New York session market reversal profile.
Okay dealing specifics with the central bank dealers range the time period that frames the central bank dealers range is 2 p.m to 8 p.m New York time. The ideal range is less than 40 pips preferably the range should be no more than 20 to 30 pips in total range high to low. So what are we saying here between 2 p.m and 8 p.m New York time regardless of where you live globally you need to find where your price charts indicate what would be seen as the candle that starts the 2 p.m and 8 p.m times in New York time.
So for completeness sake and the sake of avoiding all confusion like everything else I always teach find out what New York time is where you're at geographically then find out what that looks like in your platform for your charts and delineate that with a vertical line with 2 p.m New York and 8 p.m New York. Between those two time windows the highest high and the lowest low ideally should be less than 40 pips preferably 20 to 30 pips total ranges larger than 30 pips can tend to be unfruitful for projections. Now we can use the range in pips by calibration from high to low or using the wicks or alternatively we can use the range in the highest body and the lowest body as well whatever the highest closing or open price is and whatever the lowest close or open is in between 8 p.m and 2 p.m New York time.
Now obviously we need to know directional bias for this to be of any assistance to us so it has to be used in conjunction for our projections to work. The central bank dealers range strength is aiding in the low of the day or high of the day selection that's the most important thing as a day trader we can focus on if we can look for the highest probable high or low of the day to form or in terms of when markets are bullish we're looking for the low of the day to form predominantly in the London session so where is that low most likely going to occur and is it going to be on a day that's highly favorable for that event to unfold. Remember I said many times over the last seven years teaching Forex online that I don't trade every single day and even in this mentorship you've seen that it's not productive to try to trade every single trading day but there are times we're going to learn that there are highest probabilities for a condition to be met for that higher low to form in London.
When we have these conditions we can go in with reasonable expectation that we have a good chance more than most days that the higher low will form in London and we can get a ballpark idea where that lower high should form using the central bank dealers range. So the central bank dealers range main focus is to help you find the high or low of the day in respective bullish or bearish days. In other words if we're bullish on the market as a whole or if we're looking for one shot one kill for the week that's predominantly expected to go up for the for a Friday close higher than where it opened up on Sunday.
For instance if we're looking for one shot one kill in a bullish week we're going to be looking primarily for low of the day in London each day on Tuesday Wednesday and Thursday preferably those days but it could occur on Monday as well. But we're looking for the low of the day to form in London in that criteria but just because we're looking for the low of the form and be a bullish close every single day doesn't mean this highest probability setup and we can use the central bank dealers range to help frame that context as we'll teach in this lesson here. But we're using wicks in this example here so every one of these blue boxes represents the central bank dealers range for that respective day.
Now this chart represents the central bank dealers range with using the bodies. Now I will have to admit to you I like to use the bodies predominantly because the wicks are always going to show erroneous price because of your dealing spread through your broker. Everyone's going to have a disparity between their high and their low on every candle it's never going to agree.
So what I use is the bulk of the trading which is the body that in my opinion and there's no real panacea or be all end all answer for this but my studies over the last two decades is if we focus primarily on the bodies of the candles we're going to get more closer to what smart money is doing in relative terms than if we use just the wicks. Now we can get a lot of feedback in terms of what retail is doing if we study wicks but if we study the bodies of the candles and we frame our ranges with that we'll get more clear pictures about what the institutional accumulation distribution ranges are going to be when we use the central bank dealers range. So as you can see here each one of these ranges has its respective ranges in terms of pips.
The first is 13 pips, the next is 58 pips, the next is 19 and the last in this example is 16 pips in range. So using the bodies we're going to focus primarily on that. Now before I go into greater detail I want you to think about just because I like using the bodies and I think it's got the most advantage we still have to look at the ranges with the wicks included.
Okay so let's take a closer look at each example here. For this first one we have replicated that central bank dealers range the little blue shaded area and we duplicated that range and projected up one standard deviation that's what the 1SD stands for. So one standard deviation and second standard deviation which is just basically central bank dealers range, total pip range or in that case 13 pips.
We added 13 pips more and it added 13 pips more for a total standard deviation of 2. Notice how it takes your rate to the high of the day formed in London that particular session immediately after the central bank dealers range closes. So in other words at 8 p.m starting the Asian range project that range that we created for central bank dealers range two standard deviations up that gives us the projected London high. Now it does not mean it's going to call it to the pip it might go a little bit above it it might fall a little short of it but it gives us a range to look for.
The next one in our example here the range is 58 pips. Now this is too large our rules state that we want to have 40 pips or less ideally 20 to 30 pips. So this particular trading day we have to allow the market to do whatever it wants to do if we're going to scalp that's another thing but for day trading we can't use this criteria because it's too large of a central bank dealers range and this is not what I taught in the free teaching on my youtube channel.
But when you're using central bank dealers range projections highs and lows the criteria is 20 to 30 is ideal in terms of pips it has to be less than 40 generally but ideal ranges are 20 to 30 pips high and the reason why is if the average daily range of the candle for the daily chart that you're trading is typically around 100 pips a sec now they're not always 100 pips but I like to use as a ballpark figure general rule of thumb if we have 100 pips one third of that is around 33 pips so that's why I give about 20 to 30 pips ideal scenario it won't you want to be less than 40 pips for that reason so for power three concept to unfold if we're bullish we're looking for the opening price and in the market to trade down 20 to 30 pips ideally no more than 33 pips if it trades beyond that we don't want to see it trade more than 40 pips it doesn't mean it can't but ideal scenarios the the drop down from the opening price on accumulation days where the below the day is formed and we have a higher close bullish we're looking for that 20 to 30 pip drop down and we can use the central bank dealers rates to confirm that with other things that we'll teach in the next lesson the next example here we have one standard deviation projected below it and you can see we just about hit that but it was definitely inside the first standard deviation creating the low of the day and price trades up aggressively next example we have one standard deviation projected below and a second standard deviation projected below so now we have two standard deviations below the central bank dealers range for this particular day and it takes us right down to the low of the day so it's only off by one pip it went below one pip and then we saw the low that they formed in london looking at this obviously you know it looks like cherry picking hindsight and all that business but i want you to take in consideration when we look at price we have to have a bias what do we think price is going to do is price going to go higher or lower over the next two or three days what's the price most likely going to do over the course of this present week or next week is going to go higher is it going to go lower where are we at seasonally are we looking for bullish prices or lower prices where are we at quarterly are we in a quarterly shift that is underway that's still unfolding with bullish prices with premium pd arrays that haven't been met yet if that's the case then we could be looking for scenarios to look for buys so we're looking at discount pd arrays we're looking at reasons to suggest buying in a discount range so our pda array matrix is going to help us look for reasons to build ideas that are bullish if we look for those ideas with the central bank dealers range in conjunction with those it'll help us narrow down with time of day london open it'll help us frame ideal entry points so if we look at the daily chart and we see price trading up at a premium pd array and markets are bearish we're looking for lower prices for one shot one kill scenario looking for a lower close week we could be looking for one two or three standard deviations moved higher when the central bank dealers range is around 20 to 30 pips ideally and if we get that projection up into london we have a great deal of advantage on our side that we're probably going to get the high of the day in the london session now you add that also with your expectation of seasonal tendencies all of those things start coming together and draw a closer picture to what institutional order flow is and how ipda moves price in the next lesson we're going to go into greater detail about how we can pick the high and the low of the day with this information and with the asian range

Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.